README.md, before:

# system-tables-audit-logs

Automatic creation of important SQL Queries &amp; Alerts for Databricks System Tables `system.access.audit` logs. See the docs for more information:

* [AWS Docs](https://docs.databricks.com/administration-guide/system-tables/audit-logs.html)
* [Azure Docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/databricks/administration-guide/system-tables/audit-logs)

## Setup 

1. Clone this Github Repo using Databricks Repos (see the docs for [AWS](https://docs.databricks.com/repos/index.html) and [Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/repos/))
2. Run the [create_queries_and_alerts](notebooks/create_queries_and_alerts.py) notebook
3. The notebook will create SQL queries and alerts based on the config file [queries_and_alerts.json](resources/queries_and_alerts.json)
4. Once the notebook has been run you should see an HTML table with links to all of the queries and alerts:

![image](https://github.com/andyweaves/system-tables-audit-logs/assets/43955924/e9545061-1d78-4a1b-a86b-8202a229772a)

5. To add new SQL queries and alerts, you just add them to the config file [queries_and_alerts.json](resources/queries_and_alerts.json)
6. If you want to cleanup the queries and alerts that have been created, just update the last cell in [create_queries_and_alerts](notebooks/create_queries_and_alerts.py) so that `clean_up = True`

## Queries and Alerts

The [create_queries_and_alerts](notebooks/create_queries_and_alerts.py) notebook currently creates the following SQL queries and alerts:

<table border="0" class="dataframe">
  <thead>
    <tr style="text-align: right;">
      <th style="background-color: #FFFFFF;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;color: #305496;text-align: left;border-bottom: 2px solid #305496;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">query_name</th>
      <th style="background-color: #FFFFFF;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;color: #305496;text-align: left;border-bottom: 2px solid #305496;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">query_description</th>
      <th style="background-color: #FFFFFF;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;color: #305496;text-align: left;border-bottom: 2px solid #305496;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">alert_name</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">repeated_failed_login_attempts</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Repeated failed login attempts could indicate an attacker trying to brute force access to your lakehouse. The following query can be used to detect repeated failed login attempts over a 30 minute period within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">repeated_failed_login_attempts</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">changes_to_admin_users</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Databricks account and workspace admins should be limited to a few very trusted individuals responsible for managing the deployment. The granting of new admin privileges should be reviewed. The following query can be used to detect changes to admin users within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">changes_to_admin_users</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">changes_to_workspace_configuration</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Many workspace-level configurations perform a security-enforcing function. The following SQL query can be used to detect changes in workspace configuration within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">changes_to_workspace_configuration</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">download_data_from_control_plane</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Databricks allows customers to configure whether they want users to be able to download notebook or SQL query results, but some customers might want to monitor and report rather than prevent entirely. The following query can be used to detect the download of results from notebooks, Databricks SQL, Unity Catalog volumes and MLflow, as well as the exporting of notebooks in formats that may contain query results within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">download_data_from_control_plane</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">ip_access_list_failures</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Databricks allows customers to configure IP Access Lists to restrict access to their account &amp; workspaces. However, they may want to monitor and be alerted whenever access is attempted from an untrusted network. The following query can be used to detect all IpAccessDenied and accountIpAclsValidationFailed events within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">ip_access_list_failures</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">databricks_access_to_customer_workspaces</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">This query can be used to detect logins to your workspace via the Databricks support process. This access is tied to a support ticket while also complying with your workspace configuration that may disable such access. The following query can be used to detect Databricks access to your workspaces within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">databricks_access_to_customer_workspaces</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">global_init_script_changes</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Global init scripts run arbitrary code that is executed on every cluster. This can be a very powerful capability but with great power comes great responsibility. The following SQL query can be used to detect the creation, update and deletion of global init scripts within the last 24 hours</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">global_init_script_changes</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">mount_point_creation</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Mount points are considered an anti-pattern because mount points do not have the same strong data governance features as external locations or volumes in Unity Catalog. The following query can be used to detect new mount points created within the last 24 hours</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">mount_point_creation</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">delta_sharing_recipients_without_ip_acls</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">If you’re sharing personal data, delta sharing recipients should always be secured with IP access lists. The following SQL query can be used to monitor the creation or update of delta sharing recipients which do not have IP access lists defined.</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">delta_sharing_recipients_without_ip_acls</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">use_of_print_statements</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Databricks supports verbose audit logging, which can be useful in highly regulated environments in which all commands run interactively by a user must be recorded. Verbose audit logs can also be useful for monitoring compliance with coding standards. For example, let's suppose your organization has a policy that print() statements should not be used, the following SQL query could be used to monitor compliance with such a policy by detecting uses of the print() statement within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">use_of_print_statements</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">clam_av_infected_files_detected</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Customers using one of our compliance security profile offerings have additional monitoring agents including antivirus installed on their data plane hosts. The following query can be used to detect all antivirus scan events during which infected files have been detected within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">clam_av_infected_files_detected</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">capsule8_container_breakout_events</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">User code runs in low-privileged containers. A container escape could compromise the security of the cluster especially when running with user isolation for Unity Catalog or Table ACLs. Capsule8 provides a few alerts related to container isolation issues that should be investigated if triggered. The following query can be used to detect all container breakout events within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">capsule8_container_breakout_events</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">capsule8_changes_to_host_security_settings</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">No untrusted code or end-user commands should be running on the host OS. There should be no process making changes to security configurations of the host VM. The following SQL query can be used to help us identify suspicious changes within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">capsule8_changes_to_host_security_settings</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">capsule8_kernel_related_events</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Kernel related events could be another indicator of malicious code running on the host. In particular there should be no kernel modules loaded or internal kernel functions being called by user code. The following SQL query can be used to detect any kernel related events within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">capsule8_kernel_related_events</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">capsule8_suspicious_host_activity</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Given the architecture of the Databricks containerized runtime and host OS model, only trusted code should be making changes or executing on the host EC2. Changes to containers, evasive actions, or interactive shells could be due to suspicious activity on the host and should be reviewed. The following SQL query can be used to detect suspicious host activity within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">capsule8_suspicious_host_activity</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

Add terraform code to create queries/alerts & other objects
See `terraform/README.md` for details

README.md, after:

# system-tables-audit-logs

Automatic creation of important SQL Queries &amp; Alerts for Databricks System Tables `system.access.audit` logs. See the docs for more information:

* [AWS Docs](https://docs.databricks.com/administration-guide/system-tables/audit-logs.html)
* [Azure Docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/databricks/administration-guide/system-tables/audit-logs)

## Setup 

### Using notebook

1. Clone this Github Repo using Databricks Repos (see the docs for [AWS](https://docs.databricks.com/repos/index.html) and [Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/repos/))
2. Run the [create_queries_and_alerts](notebooks/create_queries_and_alerts.py) notebook
3. The notebook will create SQL queries and alerts based on the config file [queries_and_alerts.json](resources/queries_and_alerts.json)
4. Once the notebook has been run you should see an HTML table with links to all of the queries and alerts:

![image](https://github.com/andyweaves/system-tables-audit-logs/assets/43955924/e9545061-1d78-4a1b-a86b-8202a229772a)

5. To add new SQL queries and alerts, you just add them to the config file [queries_and_alerts.json](resources/queries_and_alerts.json)
6. If you want to cleanup the queries and alerts that have been created, just update the last cell in [create_queries_and_alerts](notebooks/create_queries_and_alerts.py) so that `clean_up = True`

### Using Terraform

Alternatively you can setup everything by following instructions in the [terraform](terraform) folder.  Terraform code is also using data from the config file [queries_and_alerts.json](resources/queries_and_alerts.json) to create all objects.

## Queries and Alerts

The [create_queries_and_alerts](notebooks/create_queries_and_alerts.py) notebook currently creates the following SQL queries and alerts:

<table border="0" class="dataframe">
  <thead>
    <tr style="text-align: right;">
      <th style="background-color: #FFFFFF;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;color: #305496;text-align: left;border-bottom: 2px solid #305496;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">query_name</th>
      <th style="background-color: #FFFFFF;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;color: #305496;text-align: left;border-bottom: 2px solid #305496;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">query_description</th>
      <th style="background-color: #FFFFFF;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;color: #305496;text-align: left;border-bottom: 2px solid #305496;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">alert_name</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">repeated_failed_login_attempts</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Repeated failed login attempts could indicate an attacker trying to brute force access to your lakehouse. The following query can be used to detect repeated failed login attempts over a 30 minute period within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">repeated_failed_login_attempts</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">changes_to_admin_users</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Databricks account and workspace admins should be limited to a few very trusted individuals responsible for managing the deployment. The granting of new admin privileges should be reviewed. The following query can be used to detect changes to admin users within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">changes_to_admin_users</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">changes_to_workspace_configuration</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Many workspace-level configurations perform a security-enforcing function. The following SQL query can be used to detect changes in workspace configuration within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">changes_to_workspace_configuration</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">download_data_from_control_plane</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Databricks allows customers to configure whether they want users to be able to download notebook or SQL query results, but some customers might want to monitor and report rather than prevent entirely. The following query can be used to detect the download of results from notebooks, Databricks SQL, Unity Catalog volumes and MLflow, as well as the exporting of notebooks in formats that may contain query results within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">download_data_from_control_plane</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">ip_access_list_failures</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Databricks allows customers to configure IP Access Lists to restrict access to their account &amp; workspaces. However, they may want to monitor and be alerted whenever access is attempted from an untrusted network. The following query can be used to detect all IpAccessDenied and accountIpAclsValidationFailed events within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">ip_access_list_failures</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">databricks_access_to_customer_workspaces</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">This query can be used to detect logins to your workspace via the Databricks support process. This access is tied to a support ticket while also complying with your workspace configuration that may disable such access. The following query can be used to detect Databricks access to your workspaces within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">databricks_access_to_customer_workspaces</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">global_init_script_changes</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Global init scripts run arbitrary code that is executed on every cluster. This can be a very powerful capability but with great power comes great responsibility. The following SQL query can be used to detect the creation, update and deletion of global init scripts within the last 24 hours</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">global_init_script_changes</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">mount_point_creation</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Mount points are considered an anti-pattern because mount points do not have the same strong data governance features as external locations or volumes in Unity Catalog. The following query can be used to detect new mount points created within the last 24 hours</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">mount_point_creation</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">delta_sharing_recipients_without_ip_acls</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">If you’re sharing personal data, delta sharing recipients should always be secured with IP access lists. The following SQL query can be used to monitor the creation or update of delta sharing recipients which do not have IP access lists defined.</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">delta_sharing_recipients_without_ip_acls</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">use_of_print_statements</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Databricks supports verbose audit logging, which can be useful in highly regulated environments in which all commands run interactively by a user must be recorded. Verbose audit logs can also be useful for monitoring compliance with coding standards. For example, let's suppose your organization has a policy that print() statements should not be used, the following SQL query could be used to monitor compliance with such a policy by detecting uses of the print() statement within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">use_of_print_statements</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">clam_av_infected_files_detected</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Customers using one of our compliance security profile offerings have additional monitoring agents including antivirus installed on their data plane hosts. The following query can be used to detect all antivirus scan events during which infected files have been detected within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">clam_av_infected_files_detected</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">capsule8_container_breakout_events</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">User code runs in low-privileged containers. A container escape could compromise the security of the cluster especially when running with user isolation for Unity Catalog or Table ACLs. Capsule8 provides a few alerts related to container isolation issues that should be investigated if triggered. The following query can be used to detect all container breakout events within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">capsule8_container_breakout_events</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">capsule8_changes_to_host_security_settings</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">No untrusted code or end-user commands should be running on the host OS. There should be no process making changes to security configurations of the host VM. The following SQL query can be used to help us identify suspicious changes within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">capsule8_changes_to_host_security_settings</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">capsule8_kernel_related_events</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Kernel related events could be another indicator of malicious code running on the host. In particular there should be no kernel modules loaded or internal kernel functions being called by user code. The following SQL query can be used to detect any kernel related events within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: white; color: black;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">capsule8_kernel_related_events</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">capsule8_suspicious_host_activity</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">Given the architecture of the Databricks containerized runtime and host OS model, only trusted code should be making changes or executing on the host EC2. Changes to containers, evasive actions, or interactive shells could be due to suspicious activity on the host and should be reviewed. The following SQL query can be used to detect suspicious host activity within the last 24 hours.</td>
      <td style="background-color: #D9E1F2;font-family: Century Gothic, sans-serif;font-size: medium;text-align: left;padding: 0px 20px 0px 0px;width: auto">capsule8_suspicious_host_activity</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
